The functioning of
networked systems is crucially dependent on the connectivity
between nodes that enables them to function cooperatively as
a network, e.g., airline routes, electric power grids, and the
Internet [25]. Here we choose the nodes of the giant connected
components to be the target node sets. There are four types of
giant connected components [23,27,28] in a directed network:
(1) giant weakly connected components (GWCCs) in which
each pair of nodes can connect via a path irrespective of the
directionality of the link, (2) giant strongly connected components
(GSCCs), in which each pair of nodes can connect by directed
paths, (3) giant in-components (GINs), the set of nodes
from which the GSCC are approachable by directed paths;
and (4) the giant out-components (GOUTs), the set of nodes
approachable from the GSCCs by directed paths. A theoretical
tool for analyzing the controllability of the giant components
of an arbitrary complex network remains an open problem.
When
the fraction of the remaining nodes p increases from zero
to one, the minimum driver node density first increases and
then decreases, showing a peak at a critical point p = pm for
both Erd˝os-Rényi (ER) networks and scale-free (SF) networks.
In particular, for each type of giant component in a ER
network, the peak value gDm is determined by the product
of the fraction of the remaining nodes and the average degree
pk, indicating that for each giant component pmk is a
constant value. Thus, the critical point pm has a reciprocal
relation with the average degree k. The critical threshold
pc characterizing the system robustness has captured plenty of
attention from scientists [23,27,33,37,38]. The critical fraction
pm at which the minimum driver node density required to
control the giant component reaches its maximum value also
characterizes the robustness of the controllability of the giant
component. If p > 7, then it is a success; however, if p < 7, we must repeat the trial.